Interview Question:
-------------------
Personal:
1)Tell me about yourself in detail i.e work experience along with domain expertise?
2)What kind of projects have you worked on?
3)How much will you rate on your skillset?

Java:
What are the important features of Java 8 release?
What do you mean by platform independence of Java?
What is JVM and is it platform independent?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What are java collections?
OOPs concepts of java?
Threading in java?
Exception handling in java?
Difference between Strin, String Buffer and String Builder?
How to write Map-REduce programms in java?


Hive:
1) What is the difference between Pig and Hive ?
2) What is the difference between HBase and Hive ?
3) Can you list few commonly used Hive services?
4) Suppose that I want to monitor all the open and aborted transactions in the system along with the transaction id and the transaction state. Can this be achieved using Apache Hive?
5) What is the use of Hcatalog?

deloitte interview questions:
-----------------------------
1: Hadoop architecture along with all components.
2: Hive architecture.
3: What is Hive catelog or HCatelog?
4: What are all Hive Services?
5: What is YARN? What it does actually?
6: Who will recieve notification or signals when name node getting down?
7: What is secondary namenode or standby namenode? And how it will work?
8: What is the difference between where and having?
9: What is the actual mechanism of where,having,group by, order by clauses?
10: What is oozie? What's the role of it in Hadoop ecosystem?
11: What is pig? how it it different from Hive?
12: What are all the differences between Map-Reduce and Spark engine processing mechanism?
13: What are all possible joins in Hive with proper examples?
14: Which one will work and why explain with reason:
> Select A.id,B.id from A A INNER JOIN B B ON A.id=B.id and A.salary>100000;
> Select A.id,B.id from A A INNER JOIN B B ON A.id=B.id where A.salary>100000;
15: Quick link to learn hadoop basics: http://ercoppa.github.io/HadoopInternals/HadoopArchitectureOverview.html

select * from 
(select product_id,product_name,product_price,dense_rank() over (order by product_price desc) as rank from products) a
where a.rank=3;

select * from 
(select product_id,product_name,product_price,rank() over (order by product_price desc) as rank from products) a;
where a.rank=3;
